DOCSUP-7363: Documentation of the 'file()' function (#22156)
ClickHouse/ClickHouse: docs/en/sql-reference/functions/files.md

---
toc_priority: 43
toc_title: Files
---

# Functions for Working with Files {#functions-for-working-with-files}

## file {#file}

> Reads file as a String. The file can contain subqueries, conditions, names of columns and any other information that will be read as one line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reads file as a String. The file content is not parsed, so any information will be read as one line.
```

**Syntax**

``` sql
file(path)
```

**Arguments**

> -   `path` — The relative path to the file from [user_files_path](../../operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings.md#server_configuration_parameters-user_files_path). Path to file support following wildcards in read-only mode: `*`, `?`, `{abc,def}` and `{N..M}` where `N`, `M` — numbers, `'abc', 'def'` — strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `path` — The relative path to the file from [user_files_path](../../operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings.md#server_configuration_parameters-user_files_path). Path to file support following wildcards: `*`, `?`, `{abc,def}` and `{N..M}` where `N`, `M` — numbers, `'abc', 'def'` — strings.
```

**Example**

> Inserting data from files a.txt and b.txt into a table as different rows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inserting data from files a.txt and b.txt into a table:
```
